OK we are going to start our journey by learning about variables and constants.
Let's start by two definitions a variable is a name that we give to a storage location in memory where
we can store a value and it can stand in any immutable value that is a value that we know at compile
time and that value cannot change throughout the life of the application.
Why do we use Konstanz.
The reason for that is to create safety in our application.
Imagine you're creating an application that involves some mathematical computation around circles.
We have this number called P which is three point 1 4 and we use that to calculate the area of a circle
.
That number should always be the same.
We don't want to accidentally change that in our program.
If we accidentally change that everything is going to blow up in terms of the results the program produces
.
So we declare that number as a constant.
And this way we create safety in our application in C-sharp to declare a variable.
We start with a type followed by an identifier and finally semicolon here and represent integer which
is a number between minus 2 billion and plus 2 billion later in this video we show you all the primitive
types that you need to know.
Also not that C-Sharp is a case sensitive language which means in this case these two identifiers are
different.
One has Laura case and one has uppercase and when declaring a variable we can optionally assign it to
value like what you see here.
You don't have to but there is one thing you need to know about variables and that is you cannot use
a variable unless you initialize it.
So let's say if I declared this number here and I decide to displayed on the console my application
will not become part.
I have to assign it a value before I can use it before I can read it.
I will show you that later when we jump to coding to declare Konstam we start with the key word Konst
.
Next we have the data type and an identifier.
And here we have to initialize it with some value.
We cannot define a constant without setting its value.
There are a few things you need to know about identifiers.
First one is that an identifier cannot start with a number.
So you cannot have an identifier like the one you see here.
Instead you need to replace one with the word one.
Also an identifier cannot include whitespace so you cannot have an identifier like first space name
.
It has to be one word and identifier cannot be a reserve keyword like in that you saw earlier.
If you're desperate to use a word that coincidentally clashes with one of the C-sharp keywords you can
Perfect's that with the at sign.
And finally as a recommendation always use meaningful names.
For example avoid a name like F and instead use first name.
This way your code will be more readable more maintainable and cleaner and everybody will understand
that in terms of naming convention.
Here are three popular naming conventions that have been around in the C language family.
We've got camel case Pasko case and Hungarian notation with camel case as you see I have bolded here
.
The first letter of the first word is Laura case and the first letter of every word after it has to
be upper case with Pasko case the first letter of every word has to be all uppercase with Hungarian
Notation prefixed the name of a variable with the data type it uses.
So here SDR represents a string.
Angelia notation is not used in C Sharp and I have noticed programmers coming from C or C++ might ground
use that in their code.
If you're one of them I highly recommend you not to use Hungarian notation because C-Sharp developers
are not used to that and they don't like to see Hungarian notation in the code.
It makes your code look a little bit ugly.
So in C-sharp to name your local variables.
Use camel case.
So as you see here the first letter of the first word is lowercase and if we had more words here in
the identifier the first letter of every word had to be uppercase for constants use Pascal case.
So here you see I've got a constant here constant integer and the first letter of every word is uppercase
.
Here is the list of most commonly used primitive types in C-sharp.
In fact the actual list is slightly bigger than this but I deliberately decided not to include those
data types because they're hardly ever used.
In fact they are there for interoperability with other languages.
I personally over the past 12 years off me coding in C-sharp.
I've hardly ever used them.
In fact never.
So I decided not to confuse you with too much details that you don't need in the next slide.
I've got a link here in case you want to learn about the other primitive types.
So let's take a look at the table here.
On the flip side I have divided this data types into four categories.
Integral numbers real numbers character and boolean.
This column shows the C-sharp data types and these are C-Sharp keywords.
Note that the Shoki words are always lower.
Each of these C-Sharp keywords or C-Sharp types maps to a type in dot net framework which is displayed
in this column so these types are part of the dot net framework.
And when you compile your application the compiler internally would translate the C-sharp keyword you
use your to equivalent of that type.
The third column here shows the number of bytes each data type uses.
I have listed the data types from the smallest to the largest in each category.
So in the category of integral number as you see byte is the smallest.
It takes only one byte as long as the largest and it takes eight bytes the more bytes we have the more
storage we have.
And we can store in larger numbers.
You don't really have to memorize the range of each data type but remember byte can store a value between
0 to 255.
Short can store a value between minus thirty two thousand two plus thirty two thousand integer can store
a value of between minus two billion two plus two billion and long is even bigger than that in terms
of real numbers.
We have three data types.
Float double and decimal float maps to the single type in that framework and it takes four bytes.
And as you see it can store a very large number.
Double is twice as big so it uses 8 bytes and decimal uses 16 bytes.
The more precision you need the bigger data type you use.
We also have character which is represented by Charke keyword and it's two bytes.
So characters in C-sharp are Unicode.
And finally we have bool which represents boolean which can be either true or false.
In case you want to learn more about the other data types that I told you they're not really used.
You can simply go to Google and search for C-Sharp built in types and the first page is the MSDE and
page that lists all the primitive types in SUCIA.
Most of these data types are pretty straight forward but there is something tricky about real numbers
in this table.
I have listed the data types we have for real numbers.
Load double and decimal.
I've highlighted double because that's the default data type used by C-Sharp compiler.
When you're using real numbers.
So if you want to declare a float you need to explicitly tell the compiler to treat the number you have
as a float.
Here is an example.
I've declared a float.
Call it number assign it one point to.
Here I have either the suffix f and that is to tell the compiler to treat this number as a float.
If I didn't have this F here compiler would think 1.2 is a double because double is the default data
type for real numbers.
And of course I cannot assign a double number into a float so the program would not comply.
Same applies to decimals.
So if you want to declare a decimal you need to add the suffix M at the end of the number in the jar
.
We also have a few other types which are not considered primitive types and there are string array ino
and class.
You'll learn more about them throughout this course.
OK that's it for this lecture in the next lecture.
We're going to talk about the concept of overflowing.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture and thank you for watching